Look, Brian. Those are our motorcycles, David says.
David and Brian are at Heathrow Airport
in London. They are motorcycle racers from Enfield,
a small town in England. They usually
go to Brazil. Racers from many countries are
going there too. They are all going to
race across the Amazon jungle. Brian is reading
a newspaper.
Listen to this, David, he says. There's a
problem in the Amazon. The Indians are very
angry because miners are going into the jungle.
The miners are taking their homes. But David
isn't listening to Brian. The race is going
to be good, he says. Yes, and difficult,
David.
Two days later, the racers are in Brasilia.
Brian and David are there too. A lot
of people come and
watch. It is a beautiful sunny morning. There
is a lot of noise. People are talking
to the racers.
Photographers are taking pictures. The race is going
to start, a young man says. Listen.
Good morning, a man says. This is the
start of the Amazon rally. 42 people are
going to race
from here to Manaus. Are you okay, Brian?
David asks. No, Brian answers. I've got a
problem. Look,
oil is leaking from the engine of my
motorcycle.
Where's that glue for oil leaks? Brian asks.
The racers are putting on their helmets.
Here, try this, David says. He gives Brian
some glue. Brian puts some glue on his
engine,
but it comes out very slowly. Quickly, Brian,
the race is going to start, David says.
But oil is leaking from Brian's engine. Quickly,
David says again. The oil stops. Brian puts
on
his helmet and gets on his motorcycle. The
engines of the motorcycles make a lot of
noise.
The race is starting, David says. Let's go,
Brian says. The Amazon rally starts.
The first day is okay. The roads are
good. The racers see many small towns and
villages.
People stand near the road and watch them.
On the second day, the roads are not
very good.
Two Italians, Luigi and Enrico, are in first
and second place.
On the third day, the racers are in
the jungle. The roads are very bad.
The Brazilians are in first and second place
now. Then, come Luigi and Enrico, David and
Brian are behind the two Italians.
The race always stops late in the afternoon.
Those Brazilians are very good and they know
the road, Brian says that evening.
The Brazilians aren't a problem. The rain is
our big problem. Look, David answers.
Day four. This is our second day in
the jungle. A difficult day. The rain never
stops and the road is very bad.
There are trees across the roads. Sometimes, we
can't stay on our motorcycles.
I am first in the race now and
David is second. The two Italians are behind
us. We are happy about that.
It is seven o'clock now and it
is very dark. The days are very hot
in the jungle. But the nights are beautiful.
David is in bed. I am going to
bed, too.
The race starts very early on the third
day in the jungle. In the afternoon, Brian
and David stop.
The jungle is very beautiful, but they aren't
looking at it. They are looking for the
town of Una Una.
Where are we now, Brian asks? I don't
know. Is this the road to Una Una?
I don't know, David says again.
Where are the racers, Brian asks? Can you
hear them? They stop their engines and listen.
The jungle is quiet. Then they hear a
noise.
Listen, David, Brian says. What is it? David
asks. It isn't a motorcycle, Brian answers.
Suddenly they see some men. They are walking
to Brian and David.
Look at those men, David. Brian says. Who
are they? David asks. They aren't racers, David.
They are Indians.
The Indians come and talk to Brian and
David, but the two young men can't understand
them.
These Indians are very angry, Brian. But why?
I don't know. I can't understand them.
We've got a problem, Brian, David says. The
Indians take the two young men to an
Indian village.
A woman with blue eyes comes and talks
to Brian and David. Her name's Astrid and
she's German.
She lives in the jungle because she's working
there with the Indians.
Who are you? The woman asks. I'm Brian
and this is my friend David.
Why are the Indians angry? David asks. Are
you miners? The miners want this place.
Sometimes they come here and they kill the
Indians, Astrid says. We aren't miners. We are
motorcycle
racers, David says. We want to go to
Una Una. Astrid talks to Maoni, the Indian
chief.
Maoni listens and talks to his men. They
aren't angry now.
The miners are coming to the village, Astrid
says. Chief Maoni knows that
they're going to kill his men. Let's get
the police Astrid, Brian says.
How? There's no time. I can go to
Una Una. There's a police station there, Brian
says.
But you don't know the road to Una
Una, David says. Astrid and Chief Maoni talk
again.
Kawak is going to go to Una Una
with you tomorrow. He's Chief Maoni's son and
he knows the road, Astrid says.
At seven o'clock in the morning, Brian
and Kawak get on Brian's motorcycle.
Kawak isn't very happy. He doesn't know about
motorcycles. The Indians watch them.
Brian starts the engine and Kawak gets off
the motorcycle quickly. The Indians run to the
trees.
Astrid talks to Kawak. Then he gets on
the motorcycle again.
The Indians watch from the trees. Brian starts
the engine again.
Go, David says. Brian and Kawak take the
road to Una Una.
It is difficult in the jungle, but Brian
is a good racer and Kawak knows the
road.
He knows every river and tree in the
jungle.
Early in the afternoon, they come to a
big river. Brian looks in his roadbook.
They are near Una Una now. Then Brian
looks at the engine.
Oh no! Oil is leaking from the engine
again, he thinks. He stops the motorcycle.
I haven't got any glue. Where's David's glue?
He thinks.
This time I've got a big problem.
Kawak looks at the oil. Then he walks
to a tree and takes a green fruit.
He puts the fruit on the hot engine.
The leak stops.
That's very good, Brian says. Thank you, Kawak.
Let's go!
They start to drive again. The oil often
leaks from the engine,
but Kawak stops it with the green fruit
every time. They arrive in Una Una in
the evening.
They meet Captain Silver at the police station,
and Brian talks to him.
The miners are coming, Captain. They're going to
kill the Indians, Brian says.
You're right, young man. We don't have much
time.
Captain Silver talks to a policeman. Let's go
to the Indian village. I want 20 men.
Quickly.
They get to the Indian village late in
the afternoon.
Let's wait for the miners, Captain Silver says.
Go behind the trees.
It's night again. They are all waiting for
the miners.
Look, Captain Silver says. They're coming.
The miners are coming from the jungle. They're
moving very quietly.
There are a lot of miners in the
village now. They are looking for the Indians.
The village is quiet. Then Captain Silver says,
this is Captain Silver. Don't move! The miners
run, and the Indians run too.
They make a lot of noise. Two miners
find David and catch him.
They're going to kill me, David thinks. But
then two policemen run to him. Stop, they
say.
We are policemen.
In the morning, Chief Maune and his people
are very happy. A lot of Indians are
dancing.
Chief Maune has two beautiful necklaces in his
hands. He smiles and gives a red necklace
to David.
Jaguarri, he says. He's giving you an Indian
name, Astrid says. Jaguarri is a small jaguar.
Then Chief Maune gives a black necklace to
Brian.
Manui, he says. Quick runner, Astrid says.
Brian gives his helmet to Kowak. Champion, he
says. They all smile.
Captain Silver takes Brian and David to Manaus.
The races are there. There are photographers too.
They are taking pictures of the champions, Luigi
and Enrico, the two Italians. Brian, David, hello.
Enrico says, Look, we are the champions, Luigi
says. Congratulations, Brian and David say.
Are you okay? Enrico asks. Now we are,
Brian says. Brian and David's talk to Enrico
and Luigi about the Indians and the miners.
Your champions too, Luigi says. Yes, they're champions
of a very important race, Captain Silver says.
Brian and David look at their Indian necklaces.
Congratulations, Manui, David says to his friend.
Congratulations, Jaguarri, Brian says.